ver: Alpha 2.0.0
Foreword

    This rule book will change during this process. During testing any provisional rules will be forked from this main doc as a beta for each version. 
  It will then be re-implemented into the main line as the testing is proven to work. As it stands this game is in its basic first form. 
  Very little differentiates the slime themes aside from just that: theming. As we continue forward we will add identifying elements into the themes 
  that fall in line with their personalities. It helps to think of this prototype kit as a starter set meaning everything must be balanced and 
  self-contained out of the box with room for expansions in the form of booster packs, map packs, etc. 

Intro

    Slime Slinger is a small-scale strategy board game that uses TCG elements as its main resource system. You will take control of an army of slimes to 
  defeat your opponents’ slimes. Use strategic equipment, powerful spells, and your cunning to become the champion slime master.
  
    Slime slingers use ectoplasm to animate cores. These slimes can evolve into complex and powerful forms when imbued with increasing amounts of ectoplasm 
  drops. Personalize your slimes with cards and figures and create your unstoppable and adorable slime army


Materials
	  This game is intended to be a wargame with a low barrier of entry, which means the rules are clear and easy to understand, however, there is quite a bit 
	of prep that a game entails not the least of which is collecting and preparing your materials. Each section below will both list and provide a general 
	overview of the necessary elements for the game.

	Cards 
	    	Of the 2 most important materials, the cards offer the most customization in the way of gameplay. Your deck will hold the information and strategies 
		you can implement into your game, so constructing a deck with a balance of slimes, support and spell cards is crucial to seizing victory.
	    -Deckbuilding
		In this set, both players have identical decks. You can only have 3 copies of a card in a deck. additional cards will be added as the progress continues
	Miniatures
		Miniatures are intended to be easily obtainable and fully customizable as far as aesthetic goes. Once you have a deck theme that speaks to you, creating 
		a slime squad that represents your vision is completely up to you. The sky is the limit with how far your imagination will carry you and your slimes. 
  	    -Collecting 
		STL files are available for download and printing at the official repositories. These minis can also be purchased from our official stores if 3D printing 
		is not an appealing option. It is preferable to have a mini for each slime card you have but may not be wholly necessary based on how your deck is constructed.
	    -Painting
  	Dice
      		A collection of six-sided dice is necessary for calculating battles and effects, a minimum of 4-6 is recommended to allow for easier play.
  	Measuring Device
      		A ruler or measuring tape will suffice as movement and attack range is measured in inches. 
  	Environment
		Environment pieces can be constructed or bought and help add a layer of complexity to your maps. Using matching pieces can create a level of immersion 
		and reality to the battle field and focusing on variety can allow for unexpected dimensions and possibilities. Choosing your terrain pieces can be 
		as collaborative or as competitive as you and your opponent want.

Setup
	Once you and your opponent have collected all your materials it is time to begin your set up. This is a collaborative effort allowing both you and your
      opponent to express yourselves

  Play area
	A 2-foot long by 4-foot wide space is the minimum for the play area with options for expansion in development. The play area is divided down the middle,
	with one side dedicated as the Battlefield and the other as the Command Field. This space size will affect details in the game-type section

    Battlefield
      the battlefield is a 2-foot by 2-foot area where all the miniatures and environment pieces are played and moved around. This is divided into 3 sections
	-Player 1’s area: the 2-foot wide by 3-inch long section nearest to them
	-Player 2’s area: the 2-foot wide by 3-inch long section nearest to them
	-No Slime’s Land: the 2-foot by 1.5-foot section that divides them in the middle
      The two-player areas function as spawn points for that respective player. 
  
    Command Field
       In the command field is where cards are played, dice are rolled and minis are held when not in play. Each player is given equal space to arrange as they 
      please but on each side there are 2 sections that should be distinct from each other:

      -Slime pool zone: 
        all cards that are to be used to pay for costs are to be kept here.
  
      -Command zone:
        any card in play needs to be here.
  
      Keeping these two sections separated is necessary to make it clear to the opponent and yourself what you have at your disposal.


Turn order
  Turn order is decided by rolling your dice. Highest roller starts. Both players draw a hand of 7 cards and the game can begin. 

Gameplay
	Basics
		Card types
		      Slimes
			These cards are used to play your slime miniatures onto the battlefield and track their health, attack, defense, etc. It also describes their effects
			which can help you turn the tide of battle. 
		        Anatomy
		          Name
		            The name of the card.
		          HP(Health Points)
		            The value that determines how many successful attacks this slime can sustain before being destroyed. (Ie. reaching 0)
		          Cost
		            The amount of droplets to be expended to play this slime from your hand
		          Class
		            The role of this slime
		          Family
		            Descriptor that lists the theme or grouping of this slime 
		          Movement Style
		            Either flying or ground movement. (This is explained in the movement section.)
		          Size
		            Either Large or Small. This affects a slime's interactions with the environment and supports.
		          Effect Box
		            abilities and special rules that this slime abides by
		          Mv(Movement)
		            distance this slime can move measured in inches. (Explained in the movement section.)
		          Ty(type)
		            attack type this slime inflicts on its target
		          Rg(Attack Range)
		            how far a target can be for this slime to be able to attack it.
		          Wk(Weakness)
		            attack type this slime is weak to
		          ATK(attack)
		            amount of dice rolls for an attack
		          Def(Defense)
		            value a roll must succeed on to damage this slime
		          Droplet value
		            the amount of droplets this card is worth when in the slime pool.
		      
		      Support
		        Support items are deployed by slimes to help you reshape the battlefield to your advantage. Turrets, Med-Stations, and even teleporters can help you 
		        take control of the map.
		        Anatomy
		          Name
		            This is the name of the card.
		          Cost
		            The amount of droplets to be expended to play this support from your hand
		          slime size supported
		            description of slimes compatible with this support
		          Effect
		            description of this support and the special rules it abides by
		          HP(Health Points)
		            The value that determines how many successful attacks this support can sustain before being destroyed. (Ie. reaching 0)
		          Droplet Value
		            the amount of droplets this card is worth when in the slime pool.
		      
		      Spells
		        Spells are powerful abilities you can cast with no physical presence. These cards allow you to change the rules of the game, quickly defeat enemies,
		        and even take control of enemy slimes. A well-timed spell can truly be the difference between winning and losing.
		        Anatomy
		          Name
		            This is the name of the card.
		          Cost
		            The amount of droplets to be expended to play this spell from your hand
		          Spell type
		            Either Act or React type. this denotes if the card has a reactionary effect
		          React cost
		            The amount of droplets to be expended to play this spell from your hand during your opponents turn
		          Effect
		            the special ability or action the Spell does.
		          Droplet Value
		            the amount of droplets this card is worth when in the slime pool.

    Droplets
      On the bottom of every card, written upside down is a Droplet  Value. Once per turn, you can add one card from your hand into your Slime Pool.
      The value on each card can be expended by rotating the cards to mark them as used. This pays for the Play Cost on the top right of every card. 
      
      Reaction-type spells denote a secondary cost next to the spell type. When playing a spell on an opponent's turn, this Reaction Cost is paid 
      instead of the original cost. This payment is considered the requirement to activate the effect. 
    Movement
      Mv value denotes the maximum distance in inches a slime can move. Slimes do not need to move the full distance on their cards but cannot move after stopping.    
      Climbing
        When slimes climb up walls, they move vertically up a wall. The distance traveled upwards counts towards the maximum movement. You must have at least 1-in remaining 
        after you climb to be able to do so, this is so once they reach the top of a wall they can step onto the top. 
          (Ex. to move up a 2-in wall, you must have at least 3-in of movement remaining so you can move 2-in vertically up and 1-in horizontally forward.)
        -Ground slimes can climb walls up to 1 in tall. Less than 1/2-in, they can walk over the  wall without subtracting the height from their movement. 
         Ground slimes are not able to move over water. 
        -Flying slimes can climb walls up to 2 in tall. Less than 1-in, they can walk over the  wall without subtracting the height from their movement.  
         Flying slimes can move over water
      
      Falling
        Falling is a form of vertical movement that has no movement cost. It has drawbacks only for ground slimes as flying slimes are immune to fall damage. 
        Damage is calculated by the height a slime has fallen. This damage is removed from the fallen slime’s hp without rolling a die.
        -Small: if falling more than one inch, for every inch fallen you remove an additional point of hp
        -Large: if falling more than two inches, for every 2 Inches fallen, you remove an additional point of hp. 

		Combat
      Initiation
      	Combat begins when one slime or support you currently control chooses a target to attack within its range. The Rg (range) value is presented in inches
        and is measured from the edge of the attacking mini’s base to the center of the target.
      Calculation
        When attacking you refer to the ATK (Attack) value of the slime that is attacking. This value tells you how many dice you roll for each slime you are 
        targeting with an attack. You then compare the result of each individual die with the DEF (defense) value on your attack target. 
          -A “+” next to a defense number means you must roll that number or higher.
          -A “-” next to a defense number means you must roll that number or lower. 
          -If no symbol is next to a defense value you must roll that exact number. 
        For every successful roll, the target takes 1 hp of damage. 
        
        Types and weaknesses
          Each slime has a specific type and weakness. If the attacking slime is the same Ty (Type) as a Wk (Weakness) on the target, you add an additional die 
          to your attack roll.
          Types are:
            Bludgeon
            Projectile
            Slash
        
        Cover
          When attacking, if there's a wall between your slime and its target, cover must be considered. The cover status of a slime is dependant on the size of the slime and the hight of the wall. When a slime is covered they cannot be attacked. however when half covered, you remove 1 die from your attack roll, combat is calculated normally after that.
          If the target slime is covered vertically such as by a pilar, cover rules also apply. If 50% or les of the target slime is covered from the attacking slime’s perspective

          Small slimes
            Half cover: ½ in minimum
            Full cover: 1 in minimum
          
          Large slimes
            Half cover: 1 in minimum
            Full cover: 2 in minimum.
    
  Turn steps
    Upkeep
      During upkeep, your turn officially begins. You return all droplets to their unused position and activate any effects that specify this step. You then draw 1 card. (both players draw on their first turn.)
		Main Step
      The main step is where you will be doing most of your gameplay. You can perform any action listed below at any time during your main step
      -Dropping
        You can add one card per turn into your slime pool. This card is played upside down so its droplet value is right side up. Once a card is played into the slime pool it is now a droplet and cannot be converted back.
    Casting
      You can play cards in your hand into the command field by “paying” the droplet cost. These costs are paid by turning the specified about of droplets listed to mark them as used. Once a droplet is used it cannot be used again until it is reset during the upkeep step for supports and slimes you then place the corresponding mini into the battle field. Slimes are placed in spawners you control and supports are Deployed in the area specified in the card
		Movement
      You can move your slimes in accordance with the rules in the movement section. Each slime can only move once per turn.
		Combat
      Slimes can attack any support or enemy slime within its range. Combat is done in accordance with the combat rules. Each slime can only attack once per turn
		End Step
      Activate any effects that specify this step. Once that is completed your turn is now over.
